Where are we now?
Kilometer 60, Boss.
Where’d she get on?
Kilometer 26.
Then…
And where’s she getting off?
No clue.
She just said she’s looking for work.
Damn.
Looking for a job? At this time?
Girls like that are bad luck.
What do you mean?
You see this?
Just drop her off here.
Luckily the truck didn’t flip over.
Good Lord.
Looking for work, right?
Just head over there.
Okay?
Just follow that road.
You’ll find a busy area there.
Lots of work opportunities for sure.
Sorry about this.
Waves of demonstrations continue to occur
amidst the special session
of the People's Consultative Assembly.
The protesters, who consisted
of university students…
Excuse me, ma'am.
..and citizens, continued to demand
the purge of the government
from New Order figures
and the abolition of the dual function
of the Armed Forces
of the Republic of Indonesia.
In his statement,
President Bacharuddin Jusuf Habibie
asked the public to support the government
in the midst
of the ongoing economic crisis…
What can I get you?
…which led to the unstable
Rupiah exchange rate,
the surge in prices
of basic necessities, and also…
Hey.
…the rising unemployment rate
as a result of….
-Anything to drink?
-Just tea, ma’am.
…the president concern
that the continuing situation
could slow down
the economic recovery process,
which, in the end, would actually worsen
the conditions of the lower classes.
The increase in Indonesian labor
deployments needs to be followed
by the availability of highly skilled
and educated workers
in order to open up more job opportunities
and improve the welfare of the community,
in addition to accelerating the recovery
of national economic stability.
Several tragedies have occurred recently,
including strong demonstrations by
university students and ordinary citizens
who reject officials and politicians from
the New Order era who are still in power.
They are demanding that these individuals
be brought to justice,
calling for term limits
for the presidency,
and that the dual function of
the Indonesian Armed Forces be abolished.
No women stopping by tonight?
They’ve all moved elsewhere.
It’s been a while.
Besides, you can’t do karaoke here.
Leaving so soon?
I'm bored.
I want a lap session
while having a nice massage.
Well, let me give you one then.
I give nice massages, too. You want?
This place used to be much busier.
People nowadays prefer singing,
karaoke, and massages.
They must be stressed out or something.
Hey.
You asshole!
You want me to sit on your lap?
Maybe tomorrow.
I’m closing up.
Hey.
Where are you going?
Where do you live?
I’m looking for work, ma’am.
Any kind of work.
Anything?
How far along are you?
Eight months, almost nine.
Want to work for me?
Let’s go.
Where is it?
-Here you go, Aunty.
-Okay.
-See you
-Tini.
Hey.
Oh, Tini. Still collecting payments
at this hour?
Yeah, some of them keep missing
their dues if I don’t show up.
Want a ride?
Who is she, ma’am?
-What’s your name?
-Tika.
Sartika.
Just call me Auntie Tini.
You’re so pretty. Why no makeup?
Such a waste.
I have some herbal stuff
to keep your baby healthy.
I'll bring it later if you want.
You can pay in installments.
Whatever, I have to open my stall
early tomorrow. See you later.
Ms. Maya, don't cut me.
I'm not done talking yet.
If you’re due soon, let me know.
-Ma’am.
-Yes. Will do.
Come in.
Hey, old man.
Wake up, old man.
Move over there.
You can sleep here.
Don’t worry.
He’s too old to cause trouble.
You can just sleep.
Ma’am.
Thank you.
What did you do for work before?
Washing and ironing clothes.
Anything that can make ends meet.
And your parents, where are they?
In the village.
Just my mother now. My father passed away.
Did you leave the house,
or were you kicked out?
If you want to work
in my coffee stall, it’s easy.
Just sit at the stall,
make coffee, that’s it.
It’s simple.
Not many people come by,
but there’s always someone.
With you around,
maybe we’ll get more visitors.
If I work there, should I cozy them
and sit on their laps, too?
Nobody’s forcing you.
Besides, in your condition,
they'll probably think twice.
Do you even know where you’d go
if you didn’t stay here?
You said you’d take any job.
Would you work overseas?
You hear the news. Some people
get abused over there.
What about your husband? What does he do?
He used to work in a plastic factory.
Now, he sometimes works
in the rice fields.
How about factory work, ma’am?
Factories are closing down everywhere.
It’s hard to find jobs in this economy.
Come on. Push… Push strongly…
Push…
Let's go. You can do this.
Ma'am, bring me a clean cloth.
Here you go.
Praise the Lord.
Cute, right?
Here, try feed him this.
Is it good?
Tasty, right?
-Thank you.
-Okay.
Your payment.
Ma’am.
As part of Indonesia's
economic recovery efforts
following the monetary crisis,
President Bacharuddin Jusuf Habibie
established the Indonesian Manpower
Placement Coordination Agency, BKPTKI,
which reports directly to the president
through Presidential Decree
No. 20 of 1999.
BKPTKI is tasked to assist
the president in improving programs
and placement
of Indonesian workers overseas
by paying attention
to the quality and safety of workers,
as well as providing
marketing and protection overseas.
Careful, it’s hot.
Is it sweet enough?
You sitting here makes the coffee sweet.
Such a sweet talker.
Buy me a pack of cigarettes.
Which one do you want?
That one.
Please?
Will you buy it for me?
Sure.
Mommy.
-Mom.
-Mom is making coffee. Okay?
You stay here with me.
Okay?
Stay here with me, okay?
Comfy?
Boss, can I have a leave?
How long?
A week, Boss.
What for?
Taking my wife.
She’s leaving for Saudi Arabia.
Other guys with wives going abroad
don’t take a full week off.
We have to stop by her hometown first.
Thank you.
How many stops are we doing later?
Maybe three.
After that, we can stop by.
-Just coffee?
-Yeah.
Ma'am.
Two coffees, one pack of peanuts.
Thank you.
How many times do I have
to tell you to count correctly?
-This is about money, idiot!
-Sorry, Boss.
If you mess up the load again,
you’re paying for it!
Moron.
What’s wrong with him this time?
The usual. I loaded the wrong box.
Just mark the number next time.
Makes it easier.
I wish I could find another job.
If you hear of anything, let me know.
Just stick with this one
and be thankful you’ve got work.
Why not go back to school instead?
Ah, school costs money.
I don't have parents
who can help me pay for it.
Or do you want to pay for it, brother?
-I'm done.
-Already? Okay.
-I'll go first.
-Okay.
Want to switch?
Your eyes are barely open.
Let’s pull over for some coffee.
Now we're talking.
Grab some "snacks" while we’re at it.
Coffee alone won’t cut it!
The parking here is such a mess.
Why not stop at one of those
karaoke joints instead?
Two coffees, please.
The increase in fuel oil prices
and basic electricity tariffs
has not only affected work needs,
but also the surge in prices
of basic commodities.
In traditional markets,
the prices of rice, sugar, cooking oil,
and flour have risen between 10% and 30%.
Meanwhile, the prices
of chili peppers, shallots,
and eggs have also increased
due to rising distribution costs.
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
mentioned
that every increase in fuel prices
could potentially raise
the cost of basic necessities
by up to 100% within four years.
The government can only try
to mitigate the economic impact
through compensation programs
for the poor,
such as direct cash aid
and affordable market operations
to control the prices
of basic commodities.
Thank you.
Sit here.
Tired, sir?
Not really. Just work as usual.
Where are you coming from?
We're going around.
What’s the load?
Fish.
But you don't smell fishy.
You’re not close enough.
Right?
Can I have a cigarette?
Cigarette?
Where was it?
Not that one.
-Which one?
-That one.
Sure, go ahead.
Mom.
Sweetie, what are you doing up?
-Go back to bed.
-I want to sleep with you, Mom.
Mommy still have guests here.
You can sleep with Grandma first.
I want to sleep with you, Mom.
But Mommy still has guests.
Ma’am, sorry.
I have to tuck Bayu in.
Okay.
Go for it, bro.
I don’t mind.
-Thank you, ma’am.
-You're welcome, sir.
Want more?
No, ma'am.
Asep, go and unload the leftovers.
Okay.
Ma'am, do you have a tray?
Want some more?
No, thanks.
These are for you, ma’am.
I have no money.
It's free.
-Are you sure?
-Yes.
Thank you.
Bayu, stop playing. It's time to eat.
Okay, Mom.
Sir, let’s eat.
So weird.
He cares more about plastic than food.
Factories are all closed anyway.
Let him be. Let's dig in.
This is your share from last night.
From who?
The guy who brought the fish.
For what? Just keep it for yourself.
Are you serious?
He said it’s for Bayu.
Wait.
If it’s for Bayu, I'll take it.
Save the money, my dear grandson, okay?
Handsome, kind, and single, too.
How do you know?
He’s not wearing a wedding ring.
Oh, please. Everyone takes their rings off
when they’re out and about.
Indeed.
Last night, I also asked them
to buy cigarettes.
Did he pay for it?
Oh my God, sorry.
I forgot. I'm not hiding it from you.
-Let's eat.
-Old man, come on.
Let’s eat, old man.
Add some more. He eats a lot.
It tastes good.
Mom, what kind of fish is it?
What kind of fish is it, ma'am?
Didn’t see you two last night.
I was at the karaoke bar.
Was it busy?
Just like usual.
Someone was asking
for a massage last night.
My kid was sick.
He was being fussy
and wouldn’t let me leave.
I didn’t have the heart
taking him out with me.
Too late to hide.
I wasn’t hiding.
I just wanted to grab a drink.
Geez.
Hanging out over
chicken noodles, huh? So fun.
What do you want to drink, Tini?
Just the usual.
Look at you all enjoying a feast.
Must be payday or something.
Makes me happy to see it.
Well then, let’s talk payments.
Why is everyone panicking?
You can pay tomorrow. Right, ma’am?
So, what’s the plan now?
Hold your horses. My child is sick.
I got a handful.
Please be patient.
See, there’s Auntie Tini. You said
you wanted to ask her something.
What do you want to ask, sweetie?
Thank you, ma'am.
You’ve grown so fast.
What do you want to ask?
Auntie Tini.
Do you sell glue?
Oh, dear God.
You’re sniffing glue at your age?
No, it's for making kites.
I helped deliver you, I can get you glue.
Piece of cake.
Thank you, ma’am.
Ladies, we're not finished here.
Mom…
Why do you work so late every night?
If I don’t work,
how will I send you to school?
How will I buy you snacks or toys?
How will I buy you kites?
But we can make our own toys.
I don’t like seeing you sit
on those men’s laps.
-Sleep already?
-Yes.
-Thank you, ma'am.
-You're welcome.
What happened to him?
He got beaten up again, I guess.
Lighter.
Got a smoke?
Thank you.
Did they rough you up again?
Same old story.
I'll go ahead.
You’re here early today.
Someone’s smitten, I see.
Don't be silly.
Ma'am.
Anything to drink?
Three coffees, please.
You guys should come earlier like this,
so you can relax here longer.
Thank you.
For you.
Wow, this coffee looks good.
Coffee always makes things better.
Coffee and cigarettes are always good.
Yeah.
This one.
Bayu, that’s enough!
Come inside.
Take a bath.
-Mom. Did he bring us more fish, Mom?
-Huh?
Not sure.
I’ll ask him later.
-How come you don’t know?
-What?
How come you don’t know?
Why don't you ask him yourself then?
-Okay?
-I don’t want to.
Cold.
Who's going to pay the parking guy?
Drivers won't mind paying a parking fee.
Alright, Tika, take over.
I’m going to lie down for a bit.
Why did he come and ask for work
for someone else?
Won't a parking guy
keep people from coming?
People will stop coming if parking
is a hassle. They'll go to another place.
Well, it's up to Mrs. Maya.
My son asked me if the uncle
is bringing fish again.
He ate so much yesterday.
Go forward… Stop.
Thank you, sir.
-Hey!
-Yes.
Unload the leftovers.
Don’t just sit there in silence.
Do something!
Mind your own business!
Want me to cook these for you now?
Tidy up the back.
Yes, ma’am.
Look at you.
So handsome.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
I want to work.
You want to work?
What kind of work?
I don’t know.
Any work.
So you don’t have
to work late all the time.
Well then, you need to study hard
and learn well.
So you can be anything you want.
Excuse me. Where's the teacher's room?
-Just go ahead.
-Thank you.
-Good morning, sir.
-Good morning.
Morning.
-Good morning, ma’am.
-Morning, sir.
How can I help you?
I want to enroll my son.
Very well.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
Here’s the thing, ma’am.
You’ll need to fill out the required forms
for the registration process.
Let’s start by entering the details.
Your name?
I’m Tika.
-Sartika Pusp--
-Your son’s name?
Bayu.
Kesuma. Bayu Kesuma, sir.
Date of birth?
December 12th,
1998.
Parents’ names?
Me. Sartika Puspita.
What about the father?
What’s the father’s name?
Here’s the thing.
The father’s name is important.
Because
only the father’s name
can be listed on the diploma.
That’s how it is.
That was fast.
We couldn’t enroll.
Why?
They asked for all kinds of documents.
They ask for a birth certificate.
They even asked who his father is.
What am I supposed to say?
Mom…
Don't think about it.
Let's eat.
Give me that.
Do you know my father?
I’ve never met mine either.
I thought your father was Hadi.
Hadi who?
The one who often gives us fish.
Oh…
Is he my father?
Why don’t you ask him yourself?
Go find a plastic bag, the big one.
Want me to make a kite for you?
Finding a plastic bag is easy.
Finding a father isn’t!
Shh!
Tika.
I need the room for a moment.
When I came,
Bayu asked if I was his father.
He asked you that?
At night, where do you guys sleep?
At home.
Oh…
You have a house.
At Mrs. Maya’s house.
Renting?
Staying over.
What time do you usually go home?
Maybe in a bit.
Want more coffee?
Just put him here.
-Is it okay?
-No problem.
How much?
Are you done?
Fifteen thousand rupiahs.
But if you want cigarettes, too,
it’ll be 22,000.
Miss…
Keep the change for Bayu.
Want to go out this weekend?
Asep!
Say, how much longer
Do you think you'll love me still?
Say, what do you think will happen
In another eight years?
Not that it matters
Just letting myself be ready
Who knows what'll happen, I'm scared
No one ever waits for me
Ever before
What happened was
CHICKEN NOODLE
Everyone was scared of me
Wo-oh-oh
Name me
The crazy lady
The headed bogey
Killed her lover, wickedly
Full of terrors
In her soul
This is Father, brother Gilang,
me,
-and Mother.
-Mother.
Are you happy?
Hadi.
Let's do this again next week.
This one.
To love
This is me
But I
Can swear…
Thank you.
That I'll abate as how I should
It's certainly not easy
To love this me
Granny.
I feel sleepy.
Come here.
-Mom isn't home yet?
-She'll be home soon.
Alright, go to sleep now.
Hey!
Come on. You are over time.
Come on. Add a little extra.
You went over the time.
Sure you still want to work there?
You could move here.
Tika! Come here!
Nah, I’m hungry.
Too much MSG.
That’s why it tastes so good.
Perfect after a tiring day.
You need some MSG.
Is that so?
Even with fish that's no longer fresh,
if you sprinkle it with MSG,
it's good as new.
Are you comparing me to fish now?
My dad’s cooking is way better than this.
You know how to cook?
Kind of. I can manage.
Why not sell noodles like your dad?
Where would I get the money?
Making ends meet is hard enough.
There’s barely enough for food,
let alone school fees later.
Hasn’t Bayu been registered yet?
I already registered yesterday, actually.
The money’s ready, but…
the paperwork was a hassle.
Asking about his father’s name
and everything.
It’s such a headache.
Even just trying to enroll is so hard.
Let me help you open
a chicken noodle stall.
I can help.
Do you have a wife?
I want to have children.
Do you want to have a husband?
Thank you, ma'am.
Thank you for everything.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you so much.
Watch out for your sandals.
Okay. Come here.
This one is better than mine.
Look at this.
This one?
So cool.
How long will it take?
About a week.
Okay, because the deadline is next week.
Okay.
If we fish in that area,
we will catch the fish straight away.
Really?
Yes, out there.
Out there? Where?
Just out there.
In here too, sometimes it's fast,
but sometimes it's long.
It takes more time to catch fish here.
Is the fish cooked yet, Mom?
-Mom?
-It’s coming. Just a moment.
Just wait a moment.
Okay.
-Thank you.
-No problem.
Dad, is this right?
Not there.
-So, where?
-I'll show you.
Put the marked one in here.
Okay. Press here.
There are fishes.
Fishes? Where?
-Cat fish.
-You are right.
Look at those fishermen.
-They want to go fishing.
-Yeah.
They went out to the sea.
Fishing here is really great.
You catch something right away.
BIRTH CERTIFICATE
Good morning, kids.
Good morning, Miss.
How are you today?
Good.
Now, open your books.
Today we'll study about good children.
Keep driving.
Stop!
Honey, you forgot this.
Now, we'll demonstrate how to greet
the teacher in the morning.
One…
Come on.
-How much is this, Bayu?
-One thousand rupiah.
Mother.
I think you’re pregnant.
Why don't you go have it checked?
If it's just a cold,
even just a little scraping
can turn your skin red.
Get well soon.
Newlyweds… You should be happy.
Why are you still making kites?
Your dad can buy many kites.
Dad hasn’t been home in a while.
I saw Mom crying often.
Maybe he’s busy at the dog's place.
What dog?
That long-haired dog.
Do you know any dogs with long hair?
Where is the kite
I made for you yesterday?
A friend at school bought it.
He said it’s good. It doesn’t tear easily.
How much did you sell it for?
We have to split the money, okay?
Yuna said last night she hasn't seen Asep
for a long time now.
The last time he was here,
he was no longer working with Hadi.
That's why you need
to come here more often.
He’s a man. When he works, let him be.
As long as the cash comes in.
It's better than having a man
who doesn't give you money.
Come on.
Since you left, the shop's been quiet.
Sometimes, those wretched girls drop by…
just when they need a room.
I’m sorry, ma’am.
You don’t need to say sorry.
Is your noodle cart ready?
You don’t need to overthink it.
Just live your life.
-Be careful.
-Watch out.
Move over there.
Okay, now, pull.
Move back.
Move back! Stop.
Stop.
Alright, pull!
-One, two, three!
-One, two…
Mom.
Wake up, Mom.
Let’s eat.
Mom.
Where did you get food from?
Who gave it to you? Is your dad home?
A lot of people bought my kites.
Mom, are you sick?
You don’t have to go to work.
I still have some money.
No, I'm fine. Don't worry.
Just save the money, okay?
I’ll get back to work soon.
Then we can start selling noodles again.
Yes.
Mom.
Gilang told me Dad’s at a dog place,
and the dog has long hair.
Does the dog really have long hair?
Where exactly?
Just go straight,
enter that door, and go upstairs.
He is big and bald.
I thought he had long hair?
You’ll see.
Let's go. Mrs. Maya's house.
Don’t think about it too much.
You can come back here anytime.
This house is yours, too.
Mom.
Someone's here.
Sartika?
I’m Anissa. I…
I know who you are.
Please come in.
That bastard spent all the money
I sent from Saudi.
Years of hard work…
and this is the result?
I thought you would at least
have a bigger house.
Bayu.
Put on your shirt.
Where are we going, Mom?
Just put that on.
I told you to put that on.
How come you can't
put that on by yourself?
-But where are we going?
-Just put that on first.
Put this on.
Mom, it’s Dad!
-Dad!
-Bayu!
-Sartika.
-Dad!
Take that junk with you.
I don’t want to see it here.
Dad.
I miss you.
Bayu, I'm sorry.
I…
Bayu, take care of your mother.
Bayu, I'm sorry.
Bayu, come on.
Come with me!
Dad…
Men. The only thing
you can count on is his dick.
His words? Never.
That's why I never believe in love.
Just do it in a room. Done.
But that's you, Sit.
We don’t have anything anymore.
So if love comes, why wouldn’t we want it?
Mom.
Where are we?
Sir.
Let's go to sleep.
Take off your slippers first.
Sekar, let's go.
Mom, I'm leaving for school.
Mom, I'm going also.
INDUSTRIAL AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mom.
You don't have to go to work today.
I may not be able
to give you anything yet,
but I want to say thank you.
Thank you to giving birth to me and Sekar.
Also, you've work hard for us.
Granny and Grandpa in heaven
must be proud of you.
Here’s my little savings for you.
You can use it to buy
whatever you want, Mom.
And when I get home,
let's have a delicious dinner.
We are proud of you, Mom.
Happy birthday, Mom.